AIM: Study of Cloud Computing architecture

1. Definition of cloud: The cloud&quot; refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software
anddatabases that run on those servers.
2. Definition cloud computing:
Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and
applications like data storage, servers, databases,networking, and software.
3. Different cloud services:
Cloud computing services fall into 4 categories:
infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
platform as a service (PaaS),
software as a service (SaaS)

I. Infrastructure-as-a-service(IaaS):
IaaS is the most basic category of cloud computing services that allows you rent IT infrastructure (servers or
VM’s) from a cloud provider on a pay-as-you-go basis.

II. Platform as a service (PaaS) :
Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) refers to the supply an on-demand environment for developing, testing, delivering
and managing software applications. It is designed to quickly create web or mobile apps, without worrying
about setting up or managing the underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network and
databases needed for development.

III. Software as a service (SaaS) :
Software-as-a-service (SaaS) is a method for delivering software applicationsm over the Internet as per the
demand and on a subscription basis.

4.Types of cloud:
1) Public Cloud – Whole computing infrastructure is located on the premises of a
cloud computing company that offers the cloud service.
2) Private Cloud – Hosting all your computing infrastructure yourself and is not
shared. The security and control level is highest while using a private network.
3) Hybrid Cloud – using both private and public clouds, depending on their purpose.
You host your most important applications on your own servers to keep them more
secure and secondary applications elsewhere.
4) Community Cloud – A community cloud is shared between organizations with a
common goal or that fit into a specific community (professional community,
geographic community, etc.).
5.Advantages of cloud computing:
Cost Savings: Cost saving is the biggest benefit of cloud computing. It helps you to save substantial capital
cost as it does not need any physical hardware investments.
Strategic edge : Cloud computing offers a competitive edge over your competitors. It helps you to access the
latest and applications any time without
spending your time and money on installations.
High Speed : Cloud computing allows you to deploy your service quickly in fewer clicks. This faster
deployment allows you to get the resources required for your system within fewer minutes.
Back-up and restore data: Once the data is stored in a Cloud, it is easier to get
the back-up and recovery of that, which is otherwise very time taking process on-premise.
Automatic Software Integration: In the cloud, software integration is something that occurs automatically.
Therefore, you don&#39;t need to take additional efforts to customize and integrate your applications as per
your preferences.
Reliability: Reliability is one of the biggest pluses of cloud computing. You can always get instantly updated
about the changes
The architecture is mainly divides the cloud architecture into two parts:
1) Front End 2) Back End
Each end is connected to others through a network, generally to the Internet.
Front End
The front end is the side of computer user or client.
It involves the interfaces and the applications that are necessary to access the
Cloud Computing system.
Back End
The back end is the cloud section of the system.
It involves all the resources which are necessary to give Cloud computing services.
It includes huge data storage, virtual machines, security mechanism, services, deployment models, servers
etc.
8. Components of cloud computing:
Cloud infrastructure consists of servers, storage devices, network, cloud management software, deployment
software, and platform virtualization.
1. Hypervisor -Hypervisor is a firmware or low-level program that acts as a Virtual Machine Manager. It allows
to share the single physical instance of cloud resources between several tenants.
2. Management Software-It helps to maintain and configure the infrastructure.
3. Deployment Software-It helps to deploy and integrate the application on the cloud.
4. Network-It is the key component of cloud infrastructure. It allows to connect cloud
5. Server-The server helps to compute the resource sharing and offers other services such allocation and
diallocation.
