Aim: Study and implementation of Infrastructure as a Service.
Download the OwnCloud X Server from the link below.(It only works with
64bit
system)
https://owncloud.com/download/
Once you visit the above link click on "DOWNLOAD".
Open VMware. Click on "Open a Virtual Machine".
click on "Power on this virtual machine".
Following window will appear.
On next window it will ask you for your “city, don’t enter any city name in
it andjust click “NEXT” (Most important step please don’t enter any city
name in it otherwise it will not read keyboard entries).
Just click “NEXT” on “Localization settings” window.
It will fetch IP Address, Net Mask and Gateway from DHCP, don’t changeanything and just click “NEXT”.
In Domain setup click “NEXT”.
Now Account information window will appear, enter details in it.
Remember
that password we are setting is for “root” and “Administrator”, click on
“NEXT”
On next window it will show you Fully Qualified domain name and LDAP
base,
click on “NEXT”.
It will show the configuration settings for owncloud scroll down a little and
click
on “CONFIGURE SYSTEM”
It will take time to setup.
Yes setup is done now click on “FINISH”.
Now on next window press any button.
Now you can see the IP address on top right hand side, open the browser
and
enter system’s IP address in URL bar and press enter.
It will ask you for Email ID to send license, enter your Email ID and click
“REQUEST ACTIVATION”.
Check your mail box you will receive the license from OwnCloud, download it.
Get back to OwnCloud and click on “UPLOAD LICENSE FILE”.
Now select the license file and click “Open”.
On next page click on “FINISH”.
Yes we have installed OwnCloud, now just try logging in with “Administrator” as
user for that click on button.
Enter “Administrator” as user name and the password which you set during
setting up process and click on “LOGIN”.
Yes we have logged in successfully, now click on button.
Yes we successfully completed OwnCloud installation.
